---
title: Vienna
excerpt: Vienna is now among my favorite European cities.
---

![Cafe
Central](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-EGtDAD2LJKU/TjGNN73ZlMI/AAAAAAAAb24/wGzvbx5nCYg/s1000/img_3562.jpg)

I left Budapest on a remarkably advanced "Railjet" train and ended up in
Vienna a short while later. Vienna is a great city. In fact, it's one of
my favorite European cities. Vienna is a blend of advanced
infrastructure, magnificent buildings, culture, and coffee.

When I got out of the train station, I walked toward Mariahilfer
Strasse, Vienna's main shopping street. The first thing I noticed was a
crowd of Turks protesting something. Nobody seemed to know what they
were upset about.

I continued walking down the street in search of WiFi and eventually
found a municipal hotspot. I fired up Google Maps and saw that there
were several hostels in the area. Based on ratings, I chose a place
called Strawberry Hostel.

Once checked in at the hostel, I walked towards the center of the city.
Overall, Vienna is very clean and modern. In the center of the city it's
still very clean, but the architecture is more grandiose. I spent a
while wandering and ended up at Café Central. After ordering a pot of
coffee (which means two cups in Vienna) and a chocolate truffle cake, I
read the first six books of the Iliad while enjoying the live piano
performance. One of the songs caught my attention in particular. I
recognized it as part of the soundtrack from *Waking Life*, one of my
favorite films.

<iframe width="770" height="578" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/N3UJveRHygI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I think the piece was originally by Chopin.

I walked for a couple more hours in the center of the city, and went
back to the hostel. The next day I went to Prague.
