---
title: Berlin
excerpt: A great time in Berlin, especially in Kreuzberg.
noindex: true
---

Immediately after arriving at the Berlin Hauptbahnhof, I went to the
tourist information desk. I asked the guy behind the counter for a map,
and he asked for 10 euro. When I asked him where to find a free WiFi
hotspot, he replied, "Nothing is free in Germany." Not a promising
start.

<!-- more -->

I left the train station and walked through the ultramodern museum
district until I reached the Brandenburg Gate. True to the man's words,
none of the German cafés had free WiFi. I was just about to give up and
head on to Copenhagen when I spotted a Starbucks. Capitalism at its
finest. I found a nearby hostel with reasonable prices, so I decided to
spend a night or two in Berlin. I slept in the hostel's "K-Studio",
along with 39 roommates.

![The
K-Studio](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-5zt0dqaFXuY/TjF6VzcnuNI/AAAAAAAAb20/dJAIhe4znPI/s1000/img_3666.jpg)

Hungry, I decided to go for a walk in search of a supermarket. East
Berlin is quite advanced, especially compared to how I imagined it. I
always thought it was a gray wasteland, but in fact it is cleaner and
more modern than West Berlin. I went back to the hostel, ate a few
delicious tomato/least expensive meat/least expensive cheese sandwiches,
and played pool for a couple hours.

Then I went out with a couple of Parisian girls and a guy from Missouri.
We convinced the guy working at the hostel to tag along too, since he
had just graduated third in his class. We took the subway to Kreuzberg
and went into a bar. I was astonished to hear *Flying Turns* from The
Minimal Wave Tapes playing.

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/1N-g7MaKZMQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

After an hour or so, we ventured forth, briefly pausing in a convenience
store where two other girls joined us. We then went to a club, but the
doorman wouldn't let me in. One of the girls who had joined us at the
store suggested that I go back to her apartment to get her friend's
blazer so that I would look older (and thus get into the club).

After spending some time at the apartment, we went back to the club.
Despite the blazer, the doorman still wouldn't let me in. Instead, I
ended up at another bar with the two girls and the friend whose blazer I
was wearing. We discussed important topics such as nonetheless vs.
nevertheless, post-punk, and hipsters. Afterwards, I enjoyed some late
night kebab and took a taxi back to the hostel.

I didn't explore Berlin as much as I had intended, but I had a good time
nevertheless. Later the next day I took the train to Copenhagen.
