---
title: Iceland
excerpt: I spent the final week of my trip exploring Iceland.
noindex: true
---

![Knitting on a tree in
Reykjavik](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-Z0V_sIl9L_g/TkWd8BhZPsI/AAAAAAAAbqk/kFSTwtfMXNQ/s1000/IMG_3711.JPG)

I arrived at Keflavik airport at about 2 AM. I was planning on spending
the night at the airport, but unfortunately the airport is very small
outside of the main terminal. I ended up taking the airport shuttle in
to Reykjavik and arrived in the city center at around 3 AM. I went to 4
different hostels before finding a place with any vacancy. The place I
ended up at, Reykjavik City Hostel, is about a 30 minute walk outside of
Reykjavik. It was interesting because the average age of the people
staying there was about 30. Iceland is an expensive place; apparently
even people in their 30s can't afford hotels there!

<!-- more -->

The following day I explored Reykjavik. I started off the day by going
to a coffee shop. The great thing about Iceland is that the coffee shops
have free refills. This was a welcome relief from the Icelandic prices.
I walked around Reykjavik for a bit, and ate salmon kebab and lobster
soup at
[Sægreifinn](http://travel.nytimes.com/2006/11/12/travel/12bite.html).

![Mink whale kebab at
Sægreifinn](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-puWv-WTpyA0/TkWcVRdqjsI/AAAAAAAAbpk/bkJs7c9-iY4/s800/IMG_3667.JPG)

After that, I walked up to Hallgrímskirkja.

![The road to
Hallgrímskirkja](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-SQQ76Q1aXfA/TkWc-Tma7aI/AAAAAAAAbp0/uVDkFjfkcY4/s1000/IMG_3670.JPG)

It's a very impressive concrete cathedral.

![Hallgrímskirkja](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-ukdquF-7G3w/TkWTmlNZ_KI/AAAAAAAAbnE/IVms7-m9boI/s1000/IMG_3678.JPG)

It looks futuristic in a sense.

![Looking up at
Hallgrímskirkja](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-jhcFB7YYGl0/TkWar1rCcTI/AAAAAAAAboY/sw6BvkxLI14/s1000/IMG_3688.JPG)

Inside, an organist was playing.

![Inside
Hallgrímskirkja](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-bJ-ALniCHBM/TkWbQziXePI/AAAAAAAAbog/5QspqMn1PS4/s1000/IMG_3690.JPG)

![Hallgrímskirkja
organ](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-sHtw8ey6Qb8/TkWbWNGfxPI/AAAAAAAAbok/eLWANvJjLD4/s1000/IMG_3692.JPG)

On the way back down the hill, I stopped inside Mokka Kaffi and had a
waffle and a cappuccino.

![Laugavegur in
Reykjavik](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-O572KH-VJKI/TkWdhFpLTOI/AAAAAAAAbqM/stBMbuNS9F8/s1000/IMG_3708.JPG)

I walked around Reykjavik a bit more, bought some groceries, and made
the long walk back to the hostel.

![Road to the
hostel](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-uLUuA4ZLHa8/TkWftXtGFgI/AAAAAAAAbro/EaROnkfAWdQ/s1000/IMG_3725.JPG)

The next day was similar to the first. For breakfast, I enjoyed "The
Truck" (pancakes, bacon, scrambled eggs, and coffee) at Grái Kötturinn.
For dinner, I had the best hot dogs in the world at Bæjarins Bestu.

![Bæjarins
Bestu](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-eSLUZM0ky1I/TkWgC6DPsoI/AAAAAAAAbr0/YsKnBDWNe7I/s1000/IMG_3701.JPG)

These hot dogs were probably the best food I purchased on the entire
trip. In Iceland, you're supposed to order a hot dog with everything
(*ein með öllu*).

![Two Icelandic hot
dogs](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-V4VYCYypLCc/TkWfr6n1yOI/AAAAAAAAbrk/WW5PYdQnivA/s1000/IMG_3700.JPG)

When Bill Clinton came to this hot dog stand, he ordered one with only
mustard. Today, they serve the "Clinton", which is a hot dog with only
mustard. No one ever orders that, though.

When young Dawn with her rose-red fingers shone once more I took the bus
to go hiking at Esjan, a popular day hiking spot outside of Reykjavik. I
missed one of the buses, so I ended up spending a couple hours at a
bakery about 10 miles away from Esjan. I had a nice cinnamon pastry and
a cappuccino (and internet), so it wasn't a problem. When I got to
Esjan, it was about 4 PM.

![Esjan](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-i8oDU7Cq-VY/TkWj1gMrLMI/AAAAAAAAbt4/crVvTSnXk0g/s1000/IMG_3768.JPG)

The guidebook said that the Esjan hike takes about 3 hours to complete,
so I was worried I might not make it back in time to catch the last bus
of the day. I proceeded swiftly up the mountain, passing several people
along the way.

![Hiking up
Esjan](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-BrXIuyU5fBc/TkWjQLMrgLI/AAAAAAAAbtg/-fc7Wi7Urug/s1000/IMG_3759.JPG)

A couple of locals passed me, but they were jogging up and down the
mountain.

![View on Esjan
hike](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-bfdJDIhisYs/TkWGOptuNbI/AAAAAAAAbks/Owz0xYbm6KU/s1000/IMG_3760.JPG)

It was extremely damp at the top of the mountain, probably because the
top of the mountain was inside a cloud.

![At the top of
Esjan](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-vFwqJZwpEzE/TkWjENIupiI/AAAAAAAAbtY/JTTsxnc2UTE/s1000/IMG_3762.JPG)

I was hiking with my brown loafers so I decided not to climb the last 50
meters to the top. Still worried that I might not catch the evening bus
back to Reykjavik, I ran all the way down the mountain. I almost caught
up with the locals who passed me earlier. The hike ended up lasting a
little over an hour.

![At the bottom of
Esjan](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-sBjzf1ezxf0/TkWjsVhLmAI/AAAAAAAAbt0/SPKx0oDXOZw/s1000/IMG_3766.JPG)

There was a restaurant at the bottom of the mountain called Esjustofa,
where I had a coffee and some carrot cake.

![Esjustofa](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-wvMbRsoowqk/TkWlKFdEQvI/AAAAAAAAbus/6WjUvsOSrks/s1000/IMG_3733.JPG)

I caught the final bus of the day without any problems.

![The road back to
Reykjavik](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-4Hg9s2l-aI0/TkWkGwKX1NI/AAAAAAAAbuE/mGZ1BURh2SE/s1000/IMG_3769.JPG)

The next day, I took a bus along the spectacular Ring Road to a place
east of Reykjavik, called Vik.

![I was the only one on the
bus](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-ejG6qo1sWMQ/TkWmKwtz2YI/AAAAAAAAbvY/79VxqX_ff8M/s1000/IMG_3774.JPG)

![Driving on the Ring
Road](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-0HcsOVlC6Gg/TkWlfRHv8PI/AAAAAAAAbu8/bkrpNsOJfR4/s1000/IMG_3790.JPG)

Vik is a small village by the coast.

![Vik](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-tNWfxxOxs04/TkWpVs8VX7I/AAAAAAAAbxI/q1df04MeGjQ/s1000/IMG_3806.JPG)

I was extremely lucky to get the last bed at the tiny hostel in Vik. I'm
honestly not sure what I would have done had I not gotten that bed,
because it was pouring rain outside and there didn't seem to be any
other options within my budget for miles.

I got up the next morning and went for a walk along the seaside cliffs.

![Cliffs by
Vik](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-10ezw6g65Xo/TkWo_F05x2I/AAAAAAAAbw4/HnGxOxMIwM8/s1000/IMG_3803.JPG)

I passed by a rock formation that looks kind of like a submerged
stegosaurus. This was a really nice hike.

![Vik
hike](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-bCMsdKXvvUA/TkWoqoH7CBI/AAAAAAAAbww/e8beQWD0U2U/s1000/IMG_3820.JPG)

Several sheep grazed alongside me.

![Icelandic
sheep](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-nyNb7N293Cg/TkWnvYK9JDI/AAAAAAAAbwI/WV2NYudTHYk/s1000/IMG_3814.JPG)

On the way back, the rain and fog returned with a vengeance. It was
literally raining sideways. When I made it back to the hostel, I was
completely drenched. I took advantage of the free food shelf at the
hostel, making an interesting combination of cous cous, salami, and
alphabet soup. I made a trek through the rain to the gas station, where
a westbound bus was departing. I took the bus to a port where I took a
ferry to the Westman Islands, a group of volcanic islands south of
Iceland.

When I arrived in Heimaey (the main Westman Island), I had to find a
place to stay. The guidebook didn't have too much to say about Heimaey,
as it is a bit off the beaten path. It did mention that Heimaey is
Iceland's most important fishing town.

![Fishing nets in
Heimaey](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-rMpIaHNH6vM/TkWxj5FIe6I/AAAAAAAAb1g/4sV3mkrmSkE/s1000/IMG_3826.JPG)

I went to the main hotel on the island, but it was way out my price
range. They didn't have any space in their hostel either. Fortunately
for me they called a friend of theirs who ran a gistihús (guesthouse) on
the outskirts of town.

![Near the
guesthouse](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-w7zxeHifS8U/TkWMo0d1j_I/AAAAAAAAbmI/hykWzig9Q8I/s1000/IMG_3824.JPG)

The guesthouse price was decent, about twice as much as the Reykjavik
hostel. Inside the guesthouse, I met a German family drinking vodka and
eating fermented shark (Iceland's equivalent of surströmming). The
fermented shark was actually not too bad. I walked into town to grab
some dinner, and ended up with an overpriced pizza.

The next day, I set out to explore the island.

![Birds on a
cliff](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-KTCbPNqaNbE/TkWxyGLQAhI/AAAAAAAAb1o/O5oSZRhHM6w/s1000/IMG_3827.JPG)

The first thing I did was hike up one of the volcanic hills that
surround the island.

![Hiking up a volcanic
hill](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-DwG-DmA35XI/TkWrY7gRnXI/AAAAAAAAbyU/VBS1yhgllEw/s1000/IMG_3844.JPG)

It was pretty steep; you had to use ropes to climb up.

![Closer to the
top](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-G0xzgTAYcu4/TkWrrM4315I/AAAAAAAAbyg/ZSP3jV077fM/s1000/IMG_3846.JPG)

There was a nice view at the top.

![View from the
top](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-xL9PICc5XGM/TkWsWY6DXrI/AAAAAAAAby8/IeXo-Xgy6Zk/s1000/IMG_3850.JPG)

Also, this wasn't climbing on solid ground. This was climbing on
volcanic sand, so it was like climbing on a diagonal beach. The great
thing about this was that you could "surf" the whole way down. Very
exciting. From there, I walked into town in search of some lunch. I went
to the grocery store and purchased a roasted chicken and two liters of
Coke. I found a picnic table in town and devoured the chicken. I ate the
chicken with such savage haste that an Asian couple actually came up to
me and asked if they could take a photograph. Who knows what strange
corner of the internet that photo ended up at. After that, I walked over
to the lava fields on the other side of town.

![Lava
fields](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-QIFEgiVNheE/TkWtuLo0SII/AAAAAAAAbz0/cRsOrl9HZkc/s1000/IMG_3866.JPG)

The lava was already solidified, of course. For some reason I was
expecting to see some flowing red lava, though. Maybe in Hawaii.

![Lava
fields](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-B2yoEFJLiMU/TkWuZZKxLzI/AAAAAAAAb0U/DzJF1HeHp6E/s1000/IMG_3872.JPG)

I also hiked up a volcano.

![On top of a
volcano](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-9lEII7rg8j4/TkXMJ6dWtdI/AAAAAAAAb3E/ap8_AH7qxMw/s1000/IMG_20110806_143331.jpg)

It was interesting because the volcano was still warm. If you dug down a
bit I'm sure you would burn your hand. It was cool to see clouds forming
as wind blew over the top of the volcano.

![Clouds forming on
volcano](https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/-eklICkKT_-4/TkWxOiiYdJI/AAAAAAAAb1Y/HPbDLIub7Sg/s1000/IMG_3885.JPG)

I took the ferry back to the mainland and took the bus back to
Reykjavik.

![Ring Road back to
Reykjavik](https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/-wYw8RXHyb3M/TkXMJyKirnI/AAAAAAAAb3E/WRP7ys2dGQg/s1000/IMG_20110806_200110.jpg)

It was quite late when I got back, so I wasn't sure whether or not to
book a hostel for the night. The bus company sold the tickets at half
price if you took the bus at 4:30 AM, which was reason enough for me to
just spend the night at the bus station. I withdrew my handy silk travel
sheet from my suitcase and slept for a few hours until it was time to
leave. Most of the people on the bus had been partying all night. I wish
I had thought of that idea, but maybe next time. After a few flights and
a car ride, I was back home in Maryland. It was without a doubt the best
summer I've ever had.
