---
title: Journey to India
excerpt: The story of my trip from San Francisco to Agra.
noindex: true
---

It's been over three years since I posted to this blog, but I finally
found the opportunity and motivation to write again. Around six months
ago I was looking at [Carbon Based Lifeforms]' concert schedule and was
surprised to see that they were playing at a music festival in the
Himalayas. I thought it would be an amazing experience so I bought
tickets and looked forward to October. Unfortunately, two months ago I
received an email from the festival stating it had been cancelled due to
"unsolved safety issues".

As an aside, it's been an unlucky year for music festivals for me. I was
planning on going to Austin Psych Fest which was cancelled due to
extreme flooding and monsoon-like weather. Then I was planning on going
to a music festival on an island above the Arctic Circle in Norway, but
I wasn't able to go to that either since I had just started a new job at
Google. And then this happened.

Well, I decided to go to India anyway.

I woke up at 4 am the day before I was scheduled to leave and realized
that I had completely forgotten to get a visa! So I jumped on the Indian
e-tourist visa website and was dismayed to learn that you need to apply
for a visa at least 4 days in advance. Undeterred, I set the entry date
to 4 days in the future and decided I would spend a couple days in Hong
Kong (my layover airport) before entering India. To my surprise, less
than 12 hours after I applied I received an email that the visa had been
granted---and it was valid for entry as early as the next day! I
cancelled the extra flight and decided to continue with the original
plan, albeit hesitantly because I was worried about being deported due
to not applying for the visa 4 days in advance.

This was the first time I had flown on Cathay Pacific. I had heard that
it's a 5-star airline, but I can now say that they well and truly
deserve that moniker. Somehow I got an automatic upgrade to "Premium
Economy" class. I boarded the aircraft in the separate line for premium
customers, bypassing hundreds of people in line for regular economy
class. Once onboard, the flight attendants brought orange juice,
champagne, and a fancy menu for lunch, dinner, and drinks. Both lunch
and dinner were excellent. Who knew that prawns and scallops could be
enjoyed at 50,000 ft?

You can start smelling the air pollution before your plane touches down
in Delhi. The city is covered in dense smog so you can barely see
anything, either.

I arrived at immigration feeling nervous about my visa situation.
Especially with the Deportee Room right behind the immigration
officers---and a couple worried people waiting inside. Luckily, I
passed through without issue. A huge sigh of relief.

Once I got out of the airport it was about 12 am. My train to Agra
departed at 6 am, and to save some money I had decided not to book a
hotel room. So I had to figure out how to kill 6 hours in the early New
Delhi morning. I figured it would be no big deal, I'd find a cool New
Delhi bar/lounge and hang out for a few hours. Big mistake. After a bit
of googling I realized there's nothing open in Delhi at 12 am, let alone
3 or 4 am. So I revised my plan and figured I would take the opportunity
to check out the tourist attractions while they weren't so crowded.

I requested an Uber to the Delhi Gate. Immediately after it was
confirmed, a heavily accented gentleman starts shouting at me in
English, but for all intents and purposes it could have been Chinese. I
couldn't understand a word this guy was saying. Eventually he hangs up
and drives for 20 minutes to get to my location. Once he's there, he
calls me up again and it's the same story. I have no idea what he's
saying, I don't see his car, and I'd been awake for 24 hours. I
cancelled the Uber and decided to take a taxi instead.

![Taxi ride into New Delhi]

I figured with the taxi, it's best to request a well-known destination
so I asked the driver to take me to the train station. Once I get there,
I see literally hundreds of people laying on the street outside of the
station. Inside, there's a guy with a water hose spraying down the floor
and the people, too. I'm standing there awestruck by this whole scene
when an authoritative gentleman approaches me and asks to see my ticket.
Needless to say, I ignored this guy and proceeded into the station.

...Just kidding. I handed the guy my ticket, and he looks it over and
explains that my train has been cancelled. What I should do is head over
to the ticket office (which is in another building, but close by), and
they'll give me a full refund and help me book another train to Agra. He
points me in the direction of the ticket office and walks away. I'm
still standing there dumbfounded and he turns around and says, "OK, I'll
show you." He leads me away from the station to a taxi, which is when I
started to realize that things were amiss. The guy explains the
situation to the taxi driver and the taxi driver responds with a price
of 500 rupees (which is what the 30 minute ride from the airport cost).
The guy says "500, no. It must be 400" and the taxi driver says OK. I
jump in the cab and once we'd left the station, ask the driver to let me
out. The driver says "No, very dangerous around here, Hindu-Muslim
violence here." After years of indoctrination as an American I'm
terrified at the mere mention of religious violence, so I decide it's
better to stay in the taxi and see where I end up. We end up at a travel
agency a couple km from the train station, and some guy comes out.
Before he can say anything I pay the cab driver his 500 and start
walking away. Then a third guy follows me and explains how dangerous it
is for me as a foreigner to be walking around here. He says, "It's not
about the money, it's dangerous for you, there's mafia around here. See
those people in the motorcycle? Mafia!"

Well, I decided to venture forth into this dangerous territory anyway. I
pass by piles of garbage, people sleeping on the sidewalk, and packs of
wild dogs, but there's no sign of mafia activity or religious violence.
Eventually I get to Connaught Place, which I had figured to be the
center of activity in New Delhi. Surely something would be open in
Connaught Place.

Nope. Turns out, Connaught Place is completely dead at 2 in the morning.
I still had 4 hours to kill at this point, so with no other options, I
figured I'd just roam around for awhile. Honestly, walking around
Connaught Place was pretty frightening, especially with thoughts of
kidnapping and terrorism fresh in my mind. There's packs of wild dogs
roaming around, barking and wheezing due to the pollution. There's rats
and mice crawling over everything, mostly staying in the shadows but
sometimes scurrying into the open. There's dogs sleeping on top of cars.
There's hundreds of dogs and people sleeping on the sidewalks. Even the
on-duty security guards are sleeping on the sidewalks at 3 am,
presumably unbeknownst to their employers. There are the largest swarms
of flies you've ever seen under the street lights. And there's all these
closed western stores and restaurants, like H&M and McDonalds.

![Dogs sleeping in Connaught Place at 3am]

At around 3:30 I'm drenched in sweat and I finally find the one place
that's open, a convenience store called Twenty Four Hours. I buy some
desperately-needed water and sit down outside of the store, where a
group of rowdy old Indians are also hanging out. I'm sitting there
trying to figure out what to do for the next two and a half hours when
three girls approach me and say they've seen me before. Not being in the
mood, I say that's impossible and they walk away. Then a guy comes up to
me and keeps asking, "Enjoy? Enjoy? Enjoy?", and finally after about 30
seconds completes the question: "Enjoy... sex?". I say no and he leaves.
Then about 5 minutes later, another guy starts trying to strike up a
conversation with me. I'm sitting there trying to end the conversation
any way I can. He finally becomes much more direct with his questions
and I explain that I'm not interested.

Luckily at this point my googling strikes gold, and I discover that
there's an executive lounge at the train station open 24/7. I request an
Uber (which again immediately tries to call me for some reason) and
leave Connaught Place without being abducted or murdered.

The lounge was fantastic, a true oasis in the desert. Free tea, coffee,
wifi---exactly what I needed at that point. After booking all of my
accommodations for the rest of the trip, I glance at the clock and
realize I only have 10 minutes left before my train leaves, so I grab my
stuff and run over to platform 1. It boggles the mind that there are
hundreds of people waiting outside that can't afford the \$3 to spend a
couple hours in there.

The contrast between rich and poor in India was even more apparent from
my Executive Class window. I've seen things like this before in Thailand
and elsewhere but the scale in India was unprecedented. We passed by
hundreds of people taking a shit on the train tracks. Most of the
buildings I saw were falling apart and practically built on top of each
other, and none of them were fully enclosed. We passed by trains that
were so crowded, people were literally hanging onto the doors outside
of the train. Meanwhile I'm sitting here in the EC car with people
wearing suits and gold watches working on their MacBooks... the contrast
was stark for sure.

Eventually breakfast was served: an omelette with toast and corn flakes
doused in hot milk. I assume it was warm because it was milk solids
hydrated with boiled water. The train lived up to its reputation as the
"second fastest in India": shortly after I had finished eating, we
arrived in Agra.

  [Carbon Based Lifeforms]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carbon_Based_Lifeforms
  [Taxi ride into New Delhi]: https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/Vqwq0LsHbepk6OE4vdK2JTIdssmwsAB45ravBp3rsqfVSAA3hn0Joy5EAlp2Rs_gd_JsH0GlMJKxuNDTsNDhes4aFIk3OfO46UB0fZFMO1jowLnbHISZHRro81W92_bgHp6zWuNnXzCnTDCHzXzKPZCBBfI8WuSLBoNpAaimy5VuAL7LBtSmr_JZpcQm9QfZXq2fFbGKElHTmEjirJ9BN8Z7PzQaKw0YT2DVfZ6E_PGhsITI2MHGgT7rn4iuRbg7TpLgVbKFovs5RdEsNVtF9zJEKsoNAigG05h-ZRevKiySwEfZlXa3vYQt9eOUMK6yKfEaodhVI49VQPhB1XvwXCiAUMJoNQUcw_TFq6YcgS9eRnEWH6KF8gLqpzpBKjnLEwGyh9I2QsIcPzTx_rk8R9M05E3rxMNEVzWUgehvomB9GhcDsjob5bVAdKbb5nXjy06YKDlqjPbcVM4N-JN4HTBZNYu-fDM7C_pJPFm309XY7j6bbzZX8r0nx-MX4AW-7QGIl6QTdU0KZuyt424CbiQ0gly5VasWnxBDYedadw01AznG6WatMyfv5VYXJtZBoqO76wHPvpkVaFHFRiV1pFsy1LxH5MEaaeVp4VBQpotPWuGtTQ=s1000
  [Dogs sleeping in Connaught Place at 3am]: https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/GW_N7JyiAor-08fMmFb5LHQDbyZISjEPmnZfErefPJbmMhHbXjNcYKSXgSj4_5HPxxy9RqRbbepLZPQ0axuMLehd92uKNFBlrOvjOXp7HFoLqOfdC7674HzElE661AYhB7bZ0bwrbso2yRYPWKGjPOpJzUvnFIk1OF0g5WNyGXB_d7qu6TWGsSQQk5V3FqtSUJlBxKxcd7Qq24r4A-_G2_qWPd_2qils-z7dIOyOcJdsP2pc3CzrJzul549fqNqOpellqcZ4a9U9C2twZJcQZ_4WZg1VGwObtfn4-gpMo0BFfYX42t9a3S6stO7dk-lJGJLGBhcMayBk0zpcooFxDIfmxZsp763YAVRLPvo6f7-Q9fYFOJ3U0-8iIfurpfQrP92lb4F2ilr2P3zKZWGlRTvFV0Wk0BT7tq3f8HtM4e-1pliY7iC8ggSdEKjvwh8S8XGq6DALa3pZ9br_ADtJEks5jeEmxpJcX-1gK1HmFJ6bEZAhKfz2gsi3Hn3iBUUGD_tS48Y97rr8JvrGidCSkG-yfm0Xqti7J1ryLdAKMmK7yriv4wx1Agty5TY94iej9Sxb-ui_3jY0OhEtMuGdhS2jP9Lllj8nXQHecf--W5LpqMZjcA=s1000
