---
title: Jaipur
excerpt: The story of my 5 days in Jaipur, India.
---

The first thing I do when I arrive in Jaipur is go to the 5-star hotel next to the train station, the ITC Rajputana. I walk through the security checkpoint (the guards just wave me through), past the hotel reception, and proceed to the Jal Mahal restaurant for breakfast. The maitre d' seats me at the head of the largest table in the room and places a napkin on my lap while other waiters bring silverware and water. I make 4 or 5 trips to the buffet which has a selection of Indian, Continental, and Chinese breakfast items, fresh fruit, and freshly squeezed juices. I'm not going to lie, my favorite thing there was the bacon. Grand total: $10.

That seemed like a great deal to me but it's a princely sum compared to the guesthouse I stayed at, which cost $4.50 per night, including breakfast. The hostel : 5-star hotel ratio is roughly the same in India as it is in Europe ($5 : $100 in India, $30 : $600 in Europe), with the difference that it's about 6 times cheaper. In fact, everything seems to be about 6 times cheaper in India. The nominal exchange rate is 65 rupees to the dollar, but I found that a better way to think about the real value of money in India is 10 rupees to the dollar. So if you spend 1000 rupees in India, you should get about the same value as you would if you spent $100 in San Francisco.

After checking in at the guesthouse, I order an Uber to the market. There's terrible traffic and the Uber ride ends taking half an hour. Still, it ends up costing only $1.50.

I walk around the market for a while, and every shopkeeper I pass tries to get me to come in. But I'm not interested in what they're selling, which for the most part looks like cheap trinkets. It's similar to China in that you'll see 5 shops all selling antique sewing machines right next to each other, 5 shops selling metal chests next to each other, and 5 shops selling pots and pans next to each other. It's dissimilar in that each shop is assigned a number and you'll hear people saying "Go to shop 126! There's good lassi in shop 35!" and so on. Now they just need a map and a shop directory and they'll have a shopping mall.

Eventually I get tired of the market and take a tour of the Hawa Mahal, the Palace of the Winds. Apparently the palace was built so the Maharajah's wives could spy on the public. A group of Indian tourists ask to take a photo with me, and I reluctantly obliged. After each one in the group individually takes a selfie with me, I leave the palace and walk around the back streets of the "Pink City" (the historic part of Jaisalmer) for a while. A group of children is playing drums and they ask me to join, which I do. A moment of serendipity ended as quickly as it started by small outstretched palms and the predictable refrain of "Rupees? Rupees?"

I try to escape the crowd of beggar children by walking down one of the alleys. A couple of them tag along, trying to be my guide in exchange for money. After a while I find myself back on the main road where a pipe has exploded and is spewing water all over the street. I stood there for about half an hour, mesmerized by the whole scene, along with about 10 other people. It's hard to explain but watching the water coming out of the pipe was captivating, like watching embers in a fire, beautiful in its own way. I have to admit there was an aspect of schadenfreude as well, watching people walk and drive through the street-cum-river, in a place where drinking water is scarcer than it is in Los Angeles.

A while later I decide to venture forth and I'm walking down the street, kind of in a daze, reflecting on what I had just seen. A guy says, "Can I ask you a question?", and I ignore him and continue walking, just like I had with every other shopkeeper that day. But then for some reason I decide to turn around and see what he has to say. He asks me why the tourists seem so cold and distant, ignoring the locals when they try to talk to them. I offer a couple of my own reasons, like "I don't want to be asked to buy something I don't want or need" and "I don't want to be ripped off, scammed, or deceived". I offer my story of getting tricked at the train station in New Delhi and he volunteers a similar story about his friend from Thailand. We agree that a few people are ruining things for everyone.

The conversation keeps going, we talk about Sweden, Germany, he tells me his name is Sameer, I tell him my name is Zach (which is pronounced by Indians as "Jack"), and eventually he declares that it's Indian custom to offer guests some chai and a place to sit down. So we walk over to his shop, where his friend Sharukh is sitting and I pull up a plastic chair and we drink chai and talk for a while. Sameer talks about the three ways of life in Jaipur: "the local, the touristic, and the fancy". Sameer is impressed by my visit to Agra (visiting neither the fort nor the Taj Mahal, and just exploring the alleys) and invites me to a home-cooked breakfast tomorrow morning. It turns out Sharukh is a tuk-tuk driver and he can drive us around Jaipur tomorrow so I can get a taste of the local life.

The next morning Sharukh picks me up at the guesthouse and we head over to Sameer's shop. Sameer is waiting inside and we talk for a while and drink some chai. Eventually breakfast arrives, some lassi, some chapatis, some curry, and we eat it on the floor.

After breakfast, we set out to see the local way of life in Jaipur and they take me to their friend's elephant farm. I'm thinking, "so much for seeing the local way of life" but decide to partake in the elephant activities anyway. I rode the elephant, fed it, etc. It was a cool experience but too "touristic" for my taste.

Then we went to a textile factory and outlet which Sameer said was owned by his family. We looked at the workers doing the traditional block printing and carpet weaving, and the person leading me around explained that their big factory was out in the Jaipur countryside. I guess the purpose of this smaller factory was more about enticing tourists to buy than actually producing textiles. Sameer and Sharukh had really shown me a good time at this point so I figured, hmm, it's this guy's family shop, so as a way of saying thanks I did decide to buy a couple things. I had them shipped back home since I had no room to spare in my backpack. Fingers crossed that the stuff actually arrives in San Francisco.

After that we drive over to a hotel restaurant for a late lunch where the only other people are the waiters and a tourist accompanied by a tuk-tuk driver. I'm feeling like that's a very bad sign, but the lunch turned out quite well and to my great surprise, Sameer and Sharukh bought the lunch for me.

With the sun setting, we drive back into the Pink City and we're going to check out this Muslim festival that's going on. The festival is all about these massive bass drums and you can hear it from a mile away. We park the tuk-tuk behind a few tractors and cows and head into the thick of it. I've never seen a crowd like this in my life. The whole street is absolutely packed with revelers, but there's not a drop of alcohol in sight. There are circles of people spaced at regular intervals, and in the middle of each one is a group of people chanting and banging the drums. We slowly inch our way through the crowd and stop at one of the circles, where in addition to the drums, there are people mock-dueling with real swords in time with the beat. They look like they're actually fighting---they have this fierce look in their eyes and they're swinging the the swords with real force. I'm standing at the edge of the crowd watching in awe, but then the crowd spots me. They tell me to go in to the circle and I'm thinking, no way, but there's about 20 people all demanding that I enter the circle and I can tell there's no way I'm getting out of here without doing this. So, I go into the middle of the circle with another guy, who luckily has sticks instead of scimitars, and we start mock-dueling in time with the beat. It ended up being an incredible experience. As I left the circle I could feel the energy of the thousands of people in the crowd watching and moving to the drum beat, a hair-raising feeling. I think I walked a bit taller and with more of a smile after that.

Earlier in the day I had told Sharukh that I enjoy classical Indian music (sitar, tabla, etc.) and he knew a place that had live Indian music. So after the festival we drive over there and drink a couple beers and talk. The place was all out of Kingfisher so we were forced to drink Tuborg. Tuborg in India is nothing like Tuborg in Europe. It's brewed somewhere in India and tastes truly foul. Tap water is unsafe to drink in India, and I highly doubt that the Indian Tuborg brewery uses purified water in their process.

The next day Sharukh drove me to the Amber Fort, which is the main tourist attraction in Jaipur. I bypassed the Amber Palace portion of the fort, which costs money to enter, and started walking up the mountain to see the two other forts that had been built nearby. Walking on the path with me was a group of about 15 Indian tourists. Once I catch up with them I say hello and they say they want to take selfies with me. After taking 15 selfies, we continue walking and joking around together. Everytime we came to a cool viewpoint, another round of 15 selfies ensued. I think in total the group probably has around 100 photos with me.

The previous night Sharukh had told me he knew a guy who has an amazing collection of old Indian instruments, like the sitar, tabla, and harmonium. So he took me to go see it, and it was admittedly an amazing collection. However, to me it seemed like less of a private collection of instruments and more of a musical instrument shop. The proprietors let me play a few of the sitars, a tabla, and give an amazing tabla demonstration, but after each instrument they give an expectant look and ask, "So, what do you think? Which one do you like?" I explain that I'm not planning on buying anything and such amazing instruments as these belong in more talented hands than my own, and we leave.

We meet up with Sameer who buys some chicken biryani and pours it out on some newspapers on the floor. Sameer and Sharukh eat it with their hands, and explain they have difficulty using silverware, and absolutely no idea how anyone eats with chopsticks. I'm eating the rice and it's good but I'm conspicuously avoiding the chicken. Up until this point I had avoided meat cooked on the street due to fears of succumbing to "Delhi Belly", but they demand that I eat some, so I comply. I don't think I've ever been food poisoned and luckily, this time is no different.

Sameer then says "I know you like food, I know a place where you can see how organic spices are made" and they end up taking me to a little spice shop. The owner welcomes me and makes a big deal out of the pictures of Zidane and a few other celebrities with him on the wall. He then proceeds to remove every single one of the spices, teas, and incense packages in the glass display cases and places them on the counter for my perusal, with a brief explanation of each one. The packaging of the spices and teas is terribly tacky, the kind of thing you'd see at Dollar General. I'm most interested in the bags of fresh cardamom and other spices he has for sale, but I'm thinking there's no reason to buy this here when I could buy it at Whole Foods with better quality. In classic Indian salesman fashion, the guy practically won't let me leave without buying something, so I buy a stick of incense for $1. After asking if I'm sure I don't really want to buy the entire package of incense, he walks away with the incense I purchased and tells me I should come into the souvenir shop next door. The only other people I see in there are tourists so I ask him to give me my incense and walk out with a sour taste in my mouth.

We drive back to Sameer's shop where we drink some more chai and they're talking about taking me to see some guru who had lived in Vancouver. The [one online review I had read about the textile shop they took me to](https://www.tripadvisor.ca/ShowTopic-g304555-i4767-k2779899-WARNING_Mughal_Arts_and_Crafts_shop-Jaipur_Jaipur_District_Rajasthan.html) warned about this very scenario, so I'm feeling very sour about this and the obvious tourist trap they had just taken me to. After I tell them I have no interest in seeing the guru, Sameer unsurprisingly asks for a photo of my receipt at the textile shop because "It's my dad's business, and they work for us...". I'm not quite sure if Sameer is honest or not. On the one hand, Sameer and Sharukh showed me a great time and experiences that I wouldn't have had if I hadn't met them. On the other hand, if the whole thing was fabricated just to get some commissions from shop owners, then they would be able to make a lot more money in Bollywood. They must have practiced the spiel 100 times.

It's such a shame, this fundamental lack of trust taints any experience you have in India. When you see people making handmade crafts, you have to wonder if it's just a front for a factory of machines located elsewhere. When someone is very friendly to you, you have to question their motives. I've decided it's best to [take the blue pill](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Red_pill_and_blue_pill) and "believe whatever you want to believe". After all, the amounts of money involved are so insignificant and yet extremely significant to the people that live here. If people make me happy, I'm happy to pay them.

When I get back to the guesthouse the owner asks me if I'm alright. He says I look very tense and asks if I had been scammed. He explains that I shouldn't get too involved with the locals, they'll try to befriend you, and then they'll try to get you to buy jewels and stuff. I tell him it's nothing like that and go to bed.

The next couple days are far less interesting but far more relaxing. I try to see the "fancy" way of life in Jaipur that Sameer talked about, having already seen the "touristic" and (to a lesser degree) "local" ways of life. I eat at nice restaurants, drink chai in fancy cafes, and so on. I go for an ayurvedic massage, followed by [30 minutes of hot oil poured on my forehead](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shirodhara). I go out with the three girls sharing a room with me. I take a cooking class on North Indian food, which was actually quite enlightening. I've enjoyed the cuisine for a long time but never had any idea how it was made until now. I got several invitations from fellow travelers to come visit in their respective countries, but I doubt that will ever happen. I wonder how many people actually follow through on such offers.

Ultimately I only caught a glimpse of Jaipur. I think it would take years to fully appreciate and understand the culture and customs of this city. Alas, there's so much time and so little to do. Wait a minute. Strike that, reverse it.
