---
title: 6 Projects to Get Started in DIY
excerpt: Six of my favorite beginner DIY projects.
noindex: true
---

One of my favorite past-times is building things using instructions
found on sites like
[Instructables](http://www.instructables.com/ "Instructables"). Here are
some of my favorite projects to get you started in the exciting world of
DIY. The great thing about these designs is that each one is only a
starting point in its respective field -- once built, each one has
enormous potential for upgrading and customization.

## [CMoy Headphone Amplifier](http://tangentsoft.net/audio/cmoy-tutorial/ "CMoy Headphone Amplifier")

![CMoy Amplifier in Mint
Tin](http://tangentsoft.net/audio/cmoy-tutorial/bitmaps/complete-outside.jpg "CMoy Headphone Amplifier")

If you're into music, you should consider building a CMoy amp. It's a
fantastic way to improve your electronics skills and your sound quality
at the same time. I started an electronics club at my school so I could
develop the skills necessary to build this thing -- it's that good of a
project.

## [Penny Stove](http://www.jureystudio.com/pennystove/ "Penny Ultralight Backpacking Stove")

A surprisingly powerful (and light) backpacking stove can be made with
little more than a few beer cans. I have used these stoves in the field
with great success. Fuel can be purchased at any hardware store -- it's
just denatured alcohol. The cool thing about this stove is that it is
not only much cheaper than its commercial competition, but it is also
much lighter and equally powerful. An exception to Keith Bontrager's
aphorism, "Strong. Light. Cheap. Pick Two."

## [Potato Cannon](http://www.instructables.com/id/The-Original-Potato-Cannon/ "The Original Potato Cannon")

The potato cannon is a classic summer project. There's nothing quite so
invigorating as transforming a mundane object like a potato into a
high-powered projectile capable of flying hundreds of feet. The basic
concept behind the potato cannon: plug the barrel with a potato, fill
the chamber with flammable aerosol, and trigger an explosion in the
chamber -- forcing the potato out at high speed.

## [Water Rocket](http://exploration.grc.nasa.gov/education/rocket/BottleRocket/about.htm "NASA Water Rocketry")

![A water rocket being
launched.](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Launchbottle.jpg/484px-Launchbottle.jpg "Water Rocket Launch")

The water rocket is another fun summer project. It is possible to send
ordinary 2 liter soda bottles into the sky with a highly-pressurized
mixture of air and water. Once you get started building water rockets,
you will find that people have developed some incredible designs -- two
stage rockets, rockets made from fluorescent light tubing, [a rocket
that flew over 2000
feet](http://www.uswaterrockets.com/world/world_story_11.htm "X-2 Water Rocket")
-- there is a lot of potential for improving your rocket.

## [Blowgun](http://www.instructables.com/id/Professional-Blowgun-and-Dart---Pierce-12-Plywoo/ "How to Make a Blowgun")

This silent-but-deadly weapon is easily made using parts from
your local hardware store. I use electrical conduit for the blowgun
itself and metal coat hangers as the darts. Once built, it is an
excellent weapon for hunting small game such as rabbits or frogs. I've
developed a nice upgrade for my own blowgun: I attached an old fishing
reel to the front of the blowgun. I then attach the fishing line to the
dart which gives me the ability to reel in my catch! This is great for
hunting frogs, as they tend to jump away unless you can pin them to the
ground.

## [Paracord Sling](http://slinging.org/index.php?page=5-strand-woven-paracord-sling-tutorial---jeffrey "Paracord Sling Tutorial")

Paracord is an extremely versatile material -- you can use it to make a
fishing net, weave a belt, make an excellent handle for your knife, and
of course to tie things together. In this case, one can weave it into a
sling capable of hurling fist-sized rocks hundreds of feet. The sling is
a weapon that requires an immense amount of training to develop
proficiency. I can certainly imagine hundreds of slingers lobbing rocks
at an oncoming army, though.
