---
title: Best of 2012
excerpt: Wherein I list the best books, movies, music, and websites of 2012.
noindex: true
---

It's been a great year. Here's a list of the best books, movies, albums,
and websites I discovered in 2012.

Books
-----

### [The Society of Mind](http://www.amazon.com/Society-Mind-Marvin-Minsky/dp/0671657135)

![The Society of
Mind](http://chemoton.files.wordpress.com/2010/03/marvin-minsky-the-society-of-mind.jpg)

I came across *The Society of Mind* when I was doing research for a
philosophy paper earlier this year. In the book, Marvin Minsky theorizes
that the mind is an emergent phenomenon arising from the interactions of
mindless "agents".

My takeaway was that the mind is like a giant tree (the hierarchical
data structure), with the leaf nodes being simple capabilities like
movement, a desire for food and water, balance, etc., and more complex
behaviors farther up the tree, each arising from its child
behaviors/capabilities. Then the root node of the tree would be
consciousness as we perceive it.

### [Prometheus Rising](http://www.amazon.com/Prometheus-Rising-Robert-Anton-Wilson/dp/1561840564)

![Prometheus
Rising](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/a/a6/PrometheusRisingCover.jpg)

*Prometheus Rising*, by the infamous Robert Anton Wilson, was a very
interesting read. It's basically RAW's attempt to synthesize [Leary's
eight-circuit model of
consciousness](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eight-circuit_model_of_consciousness),
[general semantics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_semantics),
yoga, quantum physics, and plenty of other weird stuff into an "owner's
manual for the human brain". Despite being somewhat new-age at times,
the book changed the way I see the world.

### [Snow Crash](http://www.amazon.com/Snow-Crash-Bantam-Spectra-Book/dp/0553380958)

![Snow
Crash](http://images.betterworldbooks.com/055/Snow-Crash-9780553562613.jpg)

*Snow Crash* is a sci-fi classic. It's got alternate reality, samurai
swords, Mafia-controlled pizza delivery, privately-owned police,
Sumerian myth, linguistics, and all kinds of other stuff.

There were some cool ideas in there and things like the Metaverse don't
seem too far off, especially with the [Oculus
Rift](http://www.oculusvr.com/) on the horizon.

Movies
------

### [Mulholland Drive](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mulholland_Drive_(film))

![Mulholland
Drive](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/0/0f/Mulholland.png)

*Mulholland Drive* is a film that won't make sense the first time you
watch it. It wasn't until I read [HULK VS. THE GENIUS OF MULHOLLAND
DRIVE](http://badassdigest.com/2012/03/04/film-crit-hulk-smash-hulk-vs-the-genius-of-mulholland-drive/)
that I understood what had actually happened in the film. Watch the film
and then read that article --- I haven't seen anything else that comes
close to this.

### [The Edukators](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0408777/)

![The
Edukators](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/7/7a/Fetten_jahre_sind_vorbei.jpg)

A great movie about three young Germans that break into wealthy
Berliners' homes, rearrange the furniture, and leave notes like *Die
fetten jahre sind vorbei* (the years of gluttony are over).

> Back when the staff picked interesting, under-seeded films for staff
> recommendations, we got this gem. I continue to come back to this film
> many times. It is fantastic on all fronts and imperfect in just the
> right ways. --- *Sergey @ PTP*

Albums
------

This year I listened to a ton of electronic music.

### [Bluetech --- Sines and Singularities](http://www.last.fm/music/Bluetech/Sines+and+Singularities)

![Sines and
Singularities](http://www.aleph-zero.info/userfiles/cd/Z4_400.jpg)

This album is an outstanding example of the genre known as [psychedelic
chillout](http://www.last.fm/tag/psychill/wiki).

### [Vibrasphere --- Exploring the Tributaries](http://www.last.fm/music/Vibrasphere/Exploring+The+Tributaries)

![Exploring the
Tributaries](http://pic70.picturetrail.com/VOL1830/8012224/15044022/257997215.jpg)

I listened to a lot of psytrance this year, and this album stands out as
my favorite.

### [Ashtech --- Walkin' Target](http://www.last.fm/music/Ashtech/Walkin%27+Target)

![Walkin' Target](http://f0.bcbits.com/z/35/86/358607174-1.jpg)

A great dub album by Ashtech.

### [Wendy Carlos --- Switched-On Bach](http://www.last.fm/music/Wendy+Carlos/Switched-On+Bach)

![Switched-On
Bach](http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/9/98/Switched_On_Bach.jpg)

You can't go wrong when you combine two of the greatest things in music:
J.S. Bach and the Moog synthesizer.

Websites
--------

### [Craftscape](http://codeflow.org/webgl/craftscape/)

The coolest WebGL demo I've seen so far: a shader-based terrain
sculptor/simulator/renderer.

### [Kaggle](http://www.kaggle.com/)

A site with lots of machine-learning competitions.

### [Stripe CTF](https://stripe.com/blog/capture-the-flag-20)

Stripe CTF was one of the most fun programming competitions I've
participated in. There were 8 levels in total, each consisting of a
different web app that you had to exploit in order to proceed. I got a
sweet free t-shirt for being one of the first to finish.

### [GLSL Sandbox](http://glsl.heroku.com/)

A WebGL-based shader programming sandbox. This is like [Studio
Sketchpad](http://sketchpad.cc/) on steroids. A really fun way to render
Mandelbrot sets and other fractals on the GPU in realtime.

### [Trello](https://trello.com/)

I started using Trello in January. It's a great organizational tool for
projects.

### [Pinboard](http://pinboard.in/)

After hearing a lot about it, I finally decided to lay down \$9 for a
Pinboard account. I use it to organize all of my bookmarks and also to
maintain a reading list. Pinboard has a great API that I've used to
[read articles on my Kindle](http://grimoire.in/) and also to archive
every link I consider important.

### [Web Audio API Specification](https://dvcs.w3.org/hg/audio/raw-file/tip/webaudio/specification.html)

Usually I'm not a big fan of reading long API specifications, but the
Web Audio API's specification is worth the read. Building synthesizers
inside of a web browser is just unbelievably fun.
